President Obama doesn't need the
approval of Congress to live sanctions
imposed on Iran and that's what the
Republican majority on Capitol Hill
wants to change so senator bob Corker
chair of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee is pushing the Iran nuclear
agreement review act of 2015 if passed
out of committee later out of the house
and senate it could delay and
potentially eliminate White House power
to live sanctions on Iran President
Obama says that won't happen but
Congress could override a presidential
veto with the two-thirds majority to get
that Republicans will need the support
of at least 13 Democrats in the Senate
and roughly 40 from the House of
Representatives it's not an
impossibility given that many Democrats
have taken a tough on Iran stance in the
past I'll try to work through so
President Obama has asked his energy
secretary Ernest monies to clarify
things Manish should know the former MIT
nuclear physicist led negotiations with
Iran and Switzerland now he's contacting
both Republican and Democratic senators
to provide technical details of the
framework deal the White House is
pushing hard to convince Capitol Hill
lawmakers to vote against the
legislation that would allow them to
reject the Iran agreement but it is not
just the white house that is lobbying
the halls of Congress these are very
complex and technical issues Kelsey
Davenport from the washington-based Arms
Control Association is among those also
meeting with senators to convince
skeptics the framework deal puts real
limits on Iran's nuclear program and
boosts US national security her
challenge is daunting there are those
who made up their minds about this
agreement long before the deal was
reached I think there are many members
of Congress who think we can't get a
deal with Iran because they can't be
trusted and for them it doesn't matter
how good the deal will be the deal won't
be good enough so for now the lobbying
continues that's because if the unwieldy
Iran nuclear agreement review Act
becomes law it could give Congress
60 days to weigh in and change history
the final agreement may have taken years
to secure with Iran and it all could be
undone within weeks Kimberly hellcat al
Jazeera Washington